> Draw a energy cycle diagram when ever you are stuck.
# R1.2.1 Bond Enthalpy
- Breaking bond needs energy (bond enthalpy $E$) -> endothermic -> less stable product
- Forming bond releases energy (-bond enthalpy) -> exothermic -> more stable
- Every chemical equation is equivalent breaking some bonds and forming some new ones
- Bond enthalpies are averages in gaseous states 
- $\Delta{H}=\sum{nE_\text{reactant}}-\sum{nE_\text{product}}$ 


> [!NOTE] Note
> When ever you calculate enthalpy, using bond enthalpy automatically assumes that the coefficient means the amount of moles. So the final enthalpy of reaction means enthalpy if coefficient of X means X moles of something. We can present it as per mole of reaction ($\text{mol}^{-1}$ or $\text{mol}^{-1} \text{ of reaction}$ meaning reaction have as many moles as coefficient) or per mole of something (ie. ${mol}^{-1} \text{ of NaCl}$) but that requires us to divide that answer by the coefficient of that substance so to get the enthalpy of change if 1 mole of that substance is present.

# R1.2.2 Hess's Law
- Enthalpy change of reaction is a state function meaning the path it takes is unimportant only the initial and final state.
- We can replace one chemical reaction with a combination of other equations that can be combined to create another path that use the same reagents and produce the same product.
	- The enthalpy of both path would be the same.

> [!NOTE] Note
> As long as one substance works out, you don't need to check if other products cancel out when rearranging with Hess's Law.

# R1.2.3-4 Enthalpy of Combustion and Formation
- molar enthalpy of combustion of substance is the enthalpy when one mole of that substance is combusted
- enthalpy of formation is the enthalpy when one mole of a substance is formed from pure elements in standard conditions and state
	- SATP
- $\Delta{H}=\sum{\Delta{H}_c \text{ of reactants}}-\sum{\Delta{H}_c \text{ of products}}$
- $\Delta{H}=\sum{\Delta{H}_f \text{ of products}}-\sum{\Delta{H}_f \text{ of reactants}}$

# R1.2.5 Born-Haber (Lattice Enthalpy)
- $\Delta{H}_f(MX) + \Delta{H}_\text{lattice}(MX) = \Delta_{atom}(M) + E(X) + IE(M) + EA(X)$
- Smaller the radius, Higher the charge, stronger the lattice enthalpy